In the last section, we found that we were able to connect to Rita Sealy inside of our running Docker
container and notice how mine is still running over here on the second window by adding on the dash
it flag.
So when I did that, we saw, yep, we got this prompt here, we could enter stuff in.
I could then press control, see to exit back out.
However, if I tried running this command without the TX flag.
It appeared that I just got kicked directly back over to my terminal.
So in this section, I want to give you a better idea of what this dash flag right here is really doing
for us.
The first thing you need to understand is a little bit more about how processes run inside of a Linux
environment.
As a quick reminder, when you are running Docker on your machine, every single container that you
are running is running inside of a virtual machine running Linux.
So these processes are really being executed inside of a Linux world, even if you're on Mac or Windows.
All right.
So with that in mind.
In this diagram, we've got three different running processes all inside in theory of a running container
or a really inside of a Linux environment.
Every process that we create in a Linux environment has three communication channels attached to it
that we refer to as standard in, standard out and standard air.
These channels are used to communicate information either into the process or out of the process.
Standard in, as you might guess, is used to communicate information into the process.
So when you are at your terminal and you type stuff in the stuff you type is being directed in to a
running standard and channel attached to say theoretically the standard out channel that is attached
to any given process is going to convey information that is coming from the process.
So standard out might be redirected over to your running terminal and that's going to end up as being
stuff that is going to show up on the screen.
Standard error is very similar, but it conveys information out of the process that is kind of like
an error in nature.
So if radically has some error inside of it, that's going to be communicated to the outside world over
the standard error channel and very similar to standard out, that's going to be redirected to show
up on the screen of your terminal.
So how does that relate to the flag when we do the Docker exec dash it?
Well, the it right here is actually two separate little flags.
In reality, it's a dash I and a dash T like so.
But by convention, we usually just kind of shorten it down to be simply it, which is 100% equivalent
to the two separate flags.
The dash I on here means when we execute this new command inside the container, we want to attach our
terminal to the standard end channel of that new running process.
So by adding on the dash flag, we are saying make sure that any stuff that I type gets directed to
standard in of Rita cli.
The flag is what kind of makes all this checks to show up a little bit pretty.
Now, in reality, it's doing a little bit more than that.
But at the end of the day, the real effect that the dash ti flag is to make sure that all the text
that you are entering in and that is coming out shows up in a nicely formatted manner on your screen.
And again, it's doing a little bit more behind the scenes than that.
But at the end of the day, that's kind of its effect.
Let's try attaching or doing our Docker exec on the running container one more time and leaving off
the dash t flag and just seeing what happens.
So I'll do a Docker PS to get my containers ID again.
Then I'll do a Docker exec and then we'll do only dash I.
This time I'll put the ID in and then I'll do a red CLI.
And so now this time you'll notice how I have my cursor over here.
It appears that this thing is waiting for input, but I didn't do not see that kind of nicely formatted
indentation I saw before.
And if I put in like set my value five before, I had a little bit of autocomplete functionality.
But this time that autocomplete is definitely not there.
I can still run that command though, and I still see OC and I can still do get my value and I still
see the value come out.
But again, all, all this stuff is not nicely formatted.
And so that's kind of the purpose more or less kind of simplifying things here.
Just a little bit of that Dashti flag.
So that's pretty much it.
That's the purpose of it.
It allows us to have stuff that we type into our terminal directed into that running process and allows
us to get information out back over to our terminal.
So then mind.
Let's take a quick break right here and continue in the next section.